So we'll move on to the next subsection of
Screen Readers, which is semantic HTML.
How many people have
heard this term before?
I feel like it gets thrown around quite
a bit, but it's a little bit fuzzy.
So we're gonna try to
kind of describe it and
explain specifically why it's
important and what it means.
Because I don't have strong feelings about
using all the great new HTML5 elements,
I have strong feelings about
providing really good experiences.
And so we're gonna kind of focus on what
actually is going to be really helpful
for people.
So some elements that we have in
HTML have semantic meaning but
no special functionality, right?
So they don't do anything different,
but they do have semantic meaning.
And examples here are like header,
footer and aside.
If you have div's or if you have these,
they don't do anything differently, but
they present differently.
And so these are important not because
of some kind of interaction, but
because of using assistive
technology like screen readers.
They provide this really nice content
that the screen reader can help with,
where it can say, hey, there's a new
section here that's got this in it,
as opposed to just reading div after div.
So these are not only nice because they
have meaning for other developers,
but they're nice for screen readers
because the screen reader can
help the user understand that they're in
the header, that they're in the footer,
that they're in a section.
Other elements provide a ton
of built in functionality.
So this was something that kind of blew
my mind when I started working with
accessibility is I always thought about
HTML and then I thought about HTML in this
abstract concept of spans are inline and
div's are block or things like this.
I know they render a little
bit differently, but
ultimately they're just these tags.
But then when you think about it,
there's some HTML elements that provide
a ton of functionality to them.
We have all these new input type, email
and it controls what keyboard comes up and
it does validation and it does,
when you really think about it,
if you were at a job and that job had
tied you to some super old browser,
like some 12 year old browser or
something like that.
And then your task was to implement a
dropdown button or something like that, or
an email validated input select,
there's a lot of work there.
You'd have to write a substantial amount
of JavaScript and there's keyboard
shortcuts and the way it behaves with the
escape button and is it tabable and where
does it come in in the tab order and turn
on a screen reader and how does it read?
How do you tell the user
that there's a list here and
how many items are in the list.
And you can start thinking about the
amount of JavaScript you would write for
this, let alone a date picker or a color
picker, which could get just enormous, so
it's a lot.
So we've got these set of semantic
elements which help the screen reader but
don't add functionality.
And then we've got these highly
functional elements here and, and one
of the big traps that people fall into is,
and I imagine a lot of us have seen this,
is that UI or design will want, will not
like the look of one of these elements.
And so they will task us as developers
with building our own checkbox or
our own button or something like that
that looks the way that we want it to.
And it can be very easy to forget all
the important stuff that kind of gets us
there.
For semantic markup to be Level A
compliant, we need to use semantic markup,
like lists, to designate things, H1s,
to designate our headers, our regions.
This is stuff that we often know
intuitively as developers who do a lot of
HTML, but
it's kind of cool to see written down.
Tables should only be used for
tabular data.
Text labels should
accompany form elements,
basically using the tools
available to you.
And we'll get into it with a screen
reader exercise that if you label your
form elements, it can be very
difficult to fill out a form.
And then another thing is this reading and
navigation order must be logical and
intuitive.
So again, I think things that a lot of us
do as engineers, starting with an H1 and
then the subsections are H2s,
things like that.
But really understanding the importance of
doing it for accessibility because when
you have the screen reader on and
you say read me all the top level items,
it's really only going to read the things
that are in those header tags.
It's not going to read something that
you've used CSS to make large and bold,
but doesn't have an appropriate tag to it.
Form labels in general
can be really confusing,
forms in general can be very confusing for
screen reader users.
There's lots of different ways which
we'll get into to label forms and
choosing whichever one you
want is completely fine.
But the thing that is very bad is if
you don't have any type of label,
then you will literally just be giving
screen reader users this input blank
as they're supposed to fill out
their first name, their last name,
their credit card information,
things like that.
So it can be really almost impossible
to use without some kind of labeling.
An anti pattern, and I see this quite
often is using visual labels so
a sighted user can see the context.
We all do this at the very minimum that
will put some kind of visual label,
first name text, last name text.
Because if we didn't have that,
then sighted users wouldn't be
able to fill out the form either.
But these aren't the correct tags,
this isn't semantic HTML.
And it is really important for screen
reader users because as we visually can
see, these are associated with each other.
A screen reader user will hit tab and
they'll go directly to the input box,
skipping over that paragraph tag.
And all their experience will be is
input text blank, input text blank,
input password blank.
That's all they'll get, so they'll have
no idea that they want first name,
last name or first name email.
They'll have no concept there.
And so this is all that they'll see.
So one way that we can do this
better is we can use HTML labels.
So this is the kind of oldest way
that we've had to label these things.
You can have your inputs with an ID and
then your labels with a for attribute.
And that will tie those things together,
right?
And so they will have first name text
blank as opposed to input text blank.
This can provide some issues because
now maybe you don't like the way that
the label looks or maybe you already
have some design stuff going on.
So you've got great ways to
deal with that as well, but
I wanted to talk about a few
other ways to label these things.
So yeah, now it'll read first name edit
text blank as opposed to before it
was reading edittext blank.
So much, much better, all right, cool.
So that's HTML labels, and
then we have another option that we
can use which is implicit HTML labels.
So instead of using this label for
and the ID concept, we can kind of do
the same thing by wrapping the input
with or without an ID inside label tags.
So you can use a self closing
label tag like this, or
you can use a closed label tag like this
and match their IDs with their fours.
Or you can use a label tag like this and
just put the ID or
the input inside of them.
So those will both kind of
accomplish the same thing here.
So limitations with the label tag.
So the label tag only works with what the
HTML spec defines as labelable elements.
So that's like button, input, keygen,
meter output, progress, select, text area.
So if you're building a more robust
application that doesn't use one of these
labelable elements, you can kind of
get yourself into some trouble here.
And again, this is where things
like the ARIA spec come into play.
So the ARIA spec gives you
this ARIA label property and
you can apply that to
any element you want.
So it's kind of an either or choice that
you have, you could just use ARIA labels,
they'll work the same way
with screen readers, or
you can use the label element for
HTML labelable.
And if you're ever working on something
like, I don't know, like a video game or
a really robust screen, and you just need
to label something that is not labelable,
you can do that simply with
the ARIA label property.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, talking about
the ARIA label and the label itself,
which one has precedence?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah,
that's a great question.
So if you were to have an element
like this, this label 4, and
then on the input you were to put the ARIA
labeled by the ARIA specification
bit will take precedent over
the HTML specific specification.
So if you had label for
first and this said first name,
and then you had input ARIA labeled
by my first name or your first name,
it would just read the your first name and
it wouldn't read the label itself.
These ARIA label elements, and
they work the same way, you just pass in
a string and then the screen reader will
read that before it reads
the actual content of the element.